# Ecological_Footprint

Introduction
The ecological footprint is the measurement of human consumption of natural assets such as plant-based food, livestock and fish products, forest resources and space for urban infrastructure. In recent years, the growth in Earth’s population has led to the increasing demand for these resources, which causes the ecological footprint exceeds the biocapacity (the productive area that can renew resources and absorb generated wastes such as carbon emissions). To prevent negative effects from excessive use of natural resources, it is important for people and authorities to understand the trends in the ecological footprint. This project aims to visualize the ecological footprint data by different countries and regions in order to figure out the areas with the greatest ecological deficits.
Objectives
The primary goal of this project is to analyze the trends in the amount of ecological footprint and visualize the ecological deficits/reverses. The ecological footprint is shown at various scales/levels (global, region, country and individual) with the use of two measurement units (global hectares and “number of Earths”). For more insights, the project also provides studies in different productive surface areas including carbon demand on lane, cropland, grazing land, forest land, fishing grounds and built-up land. This helps to demonstrate the growth of the ecological footprint in each kind of biocapacity and identify the areas that are in danger of resources exploitation. To evaluate the sustainability of human development, the project illustrates the growth of ecological footprint in regard to the measurement of HDI (Human Development Index – a quantity that summarizes the average achievement of human development in three primary dimensions: longevity, education and income).
The data for this project comes from the free public dataset of Global Footprint Network.
